feat:Windowed Top N (#46)
confluentinc/tutorials: windowed-top-N/flinksql/README.md

> # Windowed TopN in Flink SQL

Reviewer: hyphenating to match flink / Confluent docs

```suggestion
# Windowed Top-N in Flink SQL
```

> The TopN functionality in Flink SQL is excellent for tracking the top (or bottom) records in an event stream.  But what if you wanted the top records within distinct time ranges?  For example, consider you work for a video streaming service like NetFlix or Hulu.  You need to see the top genre of movies subscribers watch by the hour to make more accurate recommendations.  To do this ranking by hour, you can use a [Windowed Top-N query](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-topn/) and [windowing table-valued functions](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-tvf/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Top-N functionality in Flink SQL is excellent for tracking the top (or bottom) records in an event stream.  But what if you wanted the top records within distinct time ranges?  For example, consider you work for a video streaming service like Netflix or Hulu.  You need to see the top genre of movies subscribers watch by the hour to make more accurate recommendations.  To do this ranking by hour, you can use a [Windowed Top-N query](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-topn/) and [windowing table-valued functions](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-tvf/).
```

```sql
SELECT window_start, window_end, genre, COUNT(*) as category_count
    FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE movie_views, DESCRIPTOR(movie_start), INTERVAL '1' HOUR))
GROUP BY window_start, window_end, genre
```

Working our way out to the next query, it selects all results from the tumbling window query.  It performs an [over aggregation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/over-agg/) partitioning results by the window start and window end and ordering them (descending) by the count.  This query gives us the rank of movies by genre started each hour.

```sql
 SELECT *, SELECT *, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY window_start, window_end ORDER BY category_count DESC )
       FROM ( 
           ....
        )
```

The outermost query selects all results from the `OVER` aggregation where the `hour_rank` column equals 1, indicating it was the top genre of the movie that started in that hour.

```sql
SELECT  *
     FROM ( .... )
WHERE hour_rank = 1 ;
```

> Here are some essential concepts used to calculate the windowed TopN results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some essential concepts used to calculate the windowed Top-N results
```

          2024-04-23 20:00:00  2024-04-23 21:00:00    Sci-Fi          3               1 
          2024-04-23 21:00:00  2024-04-23 22:00:00    Drama           1               1 
          2024-04-23 22:00:00  2024-04-23 23:00:00    Animation       2               1 
          2024-04-23 23:00:00  2024-04-24 00:00:00    Animation       1               1   
  ```

  When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
  * A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

  #### Run the commands

  In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
  pool that you have created.

  Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

>   Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_sales` table, populate it with test data, and run the aggregating min/max query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_views` table, populate it with test data, and run the windowed Top-N query.
```
